# Redefining-Legacy-The-Ganjam-Way
Ganjam has successfully straddled the heritage and modern worlds with ease. What is the unique recipe of getting the balance right?   Ganjam as a brand was established in the small town of Ganjam in Orissa in 1889, and prior to that it is believed that we were trading in exotic gems, diamonds and Kasturi (musk) during the reign of the Vijayanagar Empire (founded in the 14th century).   We started by creating South Indian-style closed set jewellery in diamonds and coloured gemstones. Thereafter, we had the privilege of being appointed by the Mysore Maharajah as the Royal Jewellers to the Court of Mysore. As the seat of power shifted from Mysore to Bangalore during the colonial times, we moved to Bangalore. The identity of Ganjam was built through this heritage. We became known for our exceptional work in the selection of diamonds, gemstones, and exemplary craftsmanship. Our Legacy style South Indian closed set diamond jewellery and our Heritage style South Indian jewellery set with cabochon rubies, emeralds and rose cut diamonds became synonymous with Ganjam.  Ganjam as a brand has always believed in evolving with the times. In the late ’60s and early ’70s we were one of the first jewellers to introduce ready-to-wear jewellery; in those days clients used to have access to only made-to-order pieces. We worked with gold, diamond and coloured gemstone jewellery which was considered modern at that time. All the while, we ensured that our tradition of Legacy and Heritage jewellery lines stayed alive and thrived.  We opened our store at Infantry Road in the late ’90s to herald a new era for us. Here we showcased 22-karat and 18-karat diamond, platinum, and gold jewellery. We realised that we had all the attributes to transition Ganjam into a complete in-house luxury brand.   How did you achieve that?   The first step was to convert all our diamonds to a minimum quality of ‘F’ VVS. We focused on producing all our jewellery in our crafting workshops and setting up a full-fledged design studio to create unique collections that would be identifiable with the design language of our brand. We housed jewellery lines which had a philosophy under which we designed various collections.    We started our boutiques to create a unique and personalised environment for our clients in which they could enjoy the shopping experience of our products. While we were on this journey to create new and interesting products in gold and platinum, our Chairman Eswar Ganjam continues his unrelenting work with our fifth generation 22-karat workshop to revive old designs, techniques and creating beautiful pieces both in Heritage and Legacy lines. To date, he along with his niece Radha Arun, personally work on the designs, selection of gemstones and diamonds, crafting with the craftsman and offering the product to discerning customers. We are fortunate to have his 60 years of knowledge alive in the company.   The 133-year-old brand has always been reverential towards age-old jewellery crafts of India. We’d like to know more about the mission of the brand in sustaining the arts and artisans.   Ganjam as a brand has always been fuelled by culture and the arts. Our own fifth-generation workshop stands testimony to that ethos. Our Chairman Eswar Ganjam has been personally instrumental in reviving, developing and mentoring designers and craftsmen in keeping this craft alive and thriving. Here we craft our lines true to the South Indian heritage. Over the years, we created an apprenticeship model so that the younger craftspeople can learn the skill from our master craftsmen. To know more: https://gjepc.org/solitaire/redefining-legacy-the-ganjam-way/
